# SPA_Project_2016_Data_Rep-Quering

<p style = "font-weight: bold">Commit No. 19 IMPORTANT. Removed lib directory from .gitignore file. All css, bootstrap and jquery components are available from this commit. Sorry for any inconvenience and caused confusions... </p>

<div class="container-fluid" >
    <title>Installation Guide</title>
     <h1 class="text-center" style="color: #72237D">List of libraries to Install</h1><br><br>

     <p> First of all, you need to install a python on your local machine: <a href = "https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.5.2/python-3.5.2.exe">Python v3.5.2</a></p>
     <br>
     <p> You need pip installation tool to install Python libraries. <a href = "https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/">Pip</a></p>
     <br>
     <p>Once that done, run command <mark>pip freeze</mark> in your command prompt. This will show what Python already has.</p>
     <p>Use pip to install following: </p>
     <ul>
         <li>Flask==0.11.1</li>
         <li>Flask-Login==0.4.0</li>
         <li>Flask-SQLAlchemy==2.1</li>
         <li>Flask-WTF==0.13.1</li>
         <li>SQLAlchemy==1.1.4</li>
         <li>sqlalchemy-migrate==0.10.0</li>
         <li>WTForms==2.1</li>
     </ul>

    <br/>
    <br/>
    
    <p> <b>To run application</b> enter commande prompt, navigate, using cd command, to Project root directory and enter command <code>python server.py</code> </p>. Copy/Paste to a browser given address, usually http://127.0.0.1:5000/. 
    
</div>




# App Organisation

- It is a good practice to use multiple python modules to construct backend of an app, i.e, server.
  By breaking one complex module, with many differant functionalities, into smaller modules, we achive:
  
    * Easier Readability for yourself and other developers
    * Reusability of modules in differant context
    * Standard practices
    * Each module do it's own stuff
    

<div>
_________________
|  Modules List | 
-----------------

    
    <ul>
        <li><p><b>server.py</b> - module connection to an App directory that contains other modules
                                  and run method that starts your application</p></li>
                                  
        <li><p><b>__init__.py</b> - creates instace of a Flask and importing our views with routing and models for database.<br/>  Importing SQLAlchemy toolkit to manage database. This package coming from flask_sqlalchemy library. Toolkit provides various methods to build database models, creating it from this models and database data manipulations. <br/>
        Importing Flask Login utilities like LoginManager and configuring it. Making use of Werkzeug security library by importing modules for hashing and checking hashed passwords.</p></li>
        
        <li><p><b>views.py</b> - contains code for interacting with user; processing Requests and providing adequate Response to user.<br/>Setting up routes for user to navigate throughout an app, processing and validating data sent by client, tracking user activities, making database entries. </p></li>
        
        <li><p><b>config.py</b> - configuring settings for app components, for example: providing path to a database file or setting flags and keys. </p></li>
        
        <li><p><b>models.py</b> - contains database modules. They are used as intermediary component between user input and actual SQLite.<br/> Hence we can have more control over data manipulated within an app, be it of internal or external origin. As well as tracking individual user activities. <br>SQLAlchemy toolkit provides this abilities.<br/> </p></li>
        
        <li><p><b>forms.py</b> - this module provides registration form generated by WTForms included in Flask-WTF library. It includes actual form, various field constructs and validators that you can attach to a field. It saves some time and coding because it is reusable and robust compare to doing the same using just html and javascript, and we do it on a server side that client can't see what is under the hood.</p></li>
        
        <li><b>Database Modules</b>
            <li><p><b>db_create.py</b></p></li>
            <li><p><b>db_migrate.py</b></p></li>
            <li><p><b>db_upgrade.py</b></p></li>
            <li><p><b>db_downgrade.py</b></p></li><br/>
            <a href = "https://blog.miguelgrinberg.com/post/the-flask-mega-tutorial-part-iv-database">
                For detailed explanation on this modules, click here.
            </a>
            <br><p>Those modules are robust, so I used it.</p>
        </li>
        
        <li>
           <p><b>content_manager.py</b> - module defines a custom dictionary for navigation bar that sets the content of a links         under a certain topic. It is easy managable and saves alot of typing on HTML. <br/>
               <a href = "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lr4gGYDXsRo&index=8&list=PLQVvvaa0QuDc_owjTbIY4rbgXOFkUYOUB">
                   For detailed explanation on Content Management System, click here.
               </a>
           </p>
        </li>
    </ul>

</div>

# 5) Templates - Jinja2

1.1) Create templates folder in app directory.
     Inside the templates folder, Flask will look for Jinja2 templates.


1.2) Jinja2 syntaxis: 
            {{var}}
            {% logic %}
            {% endlogic %}















